earlier I spoke with hen Balou he's a
freelance journalist in Gaza I asked him
to tell us more about the situation in
Gaza in the wake of intense air strikes
reported
overnight situation as you said like
there were intense air strikes across
the G St with in the north that the the
place where the Israeli Army asked the
people to evacuate or to the area in the
South where people were asked to uh to
evacuate too um dozens of or hundreds of
of casualties were reported by the
Ministry of Health and Ministry of
interior um still uh it's not clear
what's going on it's hard to to uh uh to
count that the number of air strikes or
or uh the bombing um we can hear it from
time to time in my area I'm I'm in M rug
Camp Central gva St and I can hear the
the the tank shells the the air strikes
and the Silence of the ambulances that
evacuating casualties uh there was a
report that when Baker was H overnight
in maazi Refuge camp in central area and
according to the information office that
it's the only bakery that have the
magazi uh refugee camp
there the UN agency working with
refugees in Gaza says that it might halt
Gaza Aid operations due to a lack of
fuel how much Aid have you seen coming
through into
Gaza we are talking about few number of
trucks uh we are talking like um 54 then
I think yesterday there were uh a few
trucks more came in but that is very
below the need um and all of these AIDS
are not um including um um fuel which is
uh the basic need for many services for
water supplies for uh for vehicles uh to
work for ambulances for civil defense um
as well as for water deimination um you
know Gala water is contaminated and it
need to be uh uh uh deiminated um in in
in different stations as long as there
is no fuel there will be no uh drinking
water for for the ordinary people um um
the Ona is providing some bakeries with
wheat with M wheat so that Bakery sell
the backs with the cheaper price for for
the people but other other AIDS I mean
personally I haven't seen it um maybe
there was some distribution in schools
like it's as a filters people are
evacuating too but um and some some some
some medical supplies were distributed
partially to some Hospital in the South
officials in Gaza and Medics are saying
that the hospitals and um in in the
North or Gaza City and including the
main hospital of the G sha Hospital are
not receiving any of these AIDS as
Israelis are preventing uh delivery to
these these
areas well we can now talk to Israeli
milary spokesperson Peter LNA he joins
us from Tel Aviv welcome to the program
now the UN US Canada and EU the eu's
foreign policy Chief they've all called
for for a pause to the fighting to allow
humanitarian Aid into Gaza uh is the
Israeli military planning such a pause
or perhaps a
ceasefire Terry good morning it's day 19
of our war against Hamas Hamas that
initiated a war opened a war massacred
over 1,400 Israelis abducted 222 people
we are we have decided to destroy Hamas
and make sure they can never wield the
sword of Terror against us again the
situation in the Gaza Strip as as such
as we are we are doing going out of our
way to um to try and differentiate
between the civilian population and uh
the terrorists unfortunately it is Hamas
that is intentionally putting the people
at risk indeed that we are are uh
working with International humanitarian
organizations operating in the ground in
order to assess and understand the needs
uh there are and there was of course
stockpiles of food and medical supplies
before this war started 19 days ago and
we are facilitating and indeed we've
seen over the last few days several
trucks come in from through
Rafa Mr sorry War need change the
Paradigm sorry I I I just wanted to to
ask you you I see your points there but
I was wondering about a ceasefire or a
pause uh are is the Israeli military
planning a pause in the fighting or
ceasefire the IDF is continuing its
strikes against Hamas that is our
mission that is our goal at this time
I'm not aware of any plans to conduct a
ceasefire or any need for or any need
for that at this time indeed we're
listening to the international actors
and and we are listening very carefully
but nevertheless the time has come where
Hamas has to go
all right now let's talk about fuel uh
fuel is not being allowed into Gaza it's
desperately needed for hospitals and
sanitation as you know uh your
government says that Hamas is hoarding
fuel but even if that's the case what
speaks against the UN supplying fuel to
hospitals and desalination
plants ask Hamas that is precisely the
problem Hamas is controlling the dimmer
of the humanitarian crisis or the image
of the humanitarian crisis that is
developing Hamas has the fuel fuel it's
holding it has the ability the the
request for fuel needs to go not to
Israel but to Hamas they are the
governing authority of the Gaza Strip
they are set claiming the responsibility
for the people of Gaza they should
instead of hoarding the fuel for their
Terror tunnel so that they can have
ventilation or for their rockets for
propellant fuel or whatever they're
doing with it they should give it to the
hospitals they should give it to the
people for the water pumps that is the
right thing to do they should do it the
world needs to Rally around this chain
of regime so that Hamas can never hold
israeli's hostage 222 Israel being
hostaged this morning or the people the
2002 million people of Gaza hostage I do
want to ask you about those hostages in
just a moment but um regarding the fuel
um you know that the un uh organization
that's operating in Gaza providing
relief to refugees it says it's going to
have to stop its operations uh if it
doesn't get fuel coming in uh
today what do you think is going to
happen in Gaza if the UN is no longer
operating well it's not important what I
think it's important what they do and
they need to demand from Hamas to
instead of holding the fuel they need to
give it to the people that are in dire
need and we're not we're not um saying
that there's not a dire need of course
when you um when we've asked um a
million people to evacuate the northern
Gaza Strip to the South to get them out
of Harm's Way then there is going to be
an increased need in the South and so
Hamas need to make sure that the people
their needs is the responsibility of
Hamas they are the governing authority
of the Gaza Strip they decided as a
governing authority to go to war with
Israel you can't expect Israel to give
Hamas fuel that is it's quite a simple
conundrum unfortunately uh the
international humanitarian organizations
demanding this assistant come from
Israel are missing the point Hamas need
to be held responsible for their actions
they need to make sure that they are
giving the supplies to the
hospitals
hospitals have only fuel for one for one
more day but every day they keep giving
them fuel so it shows that Hamas are
actually Distributing well Ju Just to be
clear I think what they're asking for is
for the aid uh the fuel to come in from
from Egypt at that at that Crossing
there and not asking for Israel to
provide the fuel itself but to Simply
allow it in for the humanitarian work
but I wanted to move on to to something
else the question of safe areas in the
South you you you referred to those uh
those areas is are also being bombed we
plenty of eyewitnesses um confirm that
what are you doing to assure that
innocent civilians are are not being
killed uh in those safe areas soal so I
just received a report that in the
humanitarian Zone that we designated
that a rocket had actually been fired
out of that so that poses the exact
challenge we are facing do we not
protect ourselves because Hamas is
launching Rockets behind civilians do we
not protect our civilians
this is the Dilemma what we are doing is
trying to minimize the impact we are
targeting Hamas for sure we will
continue to pursue this terrorist
organization that brutally massacred
maimed uh
abducted over 1,400 people 1,400 men
women and children when they dismembered
when they came in and penetrated our
border they signed their own destiny
they cannot be permitted to ever hold
the power of government in Gaza again to
launch such a against Israel that is the
situation unfortunately it is the
civilians of Gaza that have been let
down miserably by this terrorist
organization it is their responsibility
to try and alleviate those issues on the
humanitarian but also on security sorry
we're just about out of time I just
wanted to ask you one more questions
about the hostages which I I mentioned
earlier um what efforts are underway to
get those hostages released briefly if
you can the hostage issue as I said 220
people the families of 220 people that
have been torn to pieces for 19 days now
a reality that I can't imagine the pain
that they are going through and we are
and and I'm saying that the IDF has put
at the top of our priority both for
operational and civilian efforts in
order to bring them home immediately it
is hamas's responsibility for their
welfare we're demanding uh International
Committee of the Red Cross have access
to them and I would say we will go no uh
uh to any length in order to bring them
home they are the top of our prior
priority they need to be let let free
now um um Hamas have that responsibility
we are expecting them to come home now
Peter Lana of the Israeli Defense Forces
thank you very much for talking with us
today thank you good day and we can now
talk to Margaret Harris a spokesperson
for the World Health Organization she
joins us from Geneva Miss Harris I
understand you're in touch with your w
uh colleagues in Gaza what are they
telling
you they're telling me that they're not
sleeping they're bombardments all the
time they're not sleeping because of the
bombardments but also because of the
anxiety about trying to get the supplies
to the hospitals they've only been able
to supply four hospitals from the trucks
that we were able to get through
beginning Sunday because there's no safe
way to get to many of the hospitals in
the center and the North and there's no
guarantees from any sides that they will
be safe so uh and wherever they go the
need is so desperate they they describe
how they arrive at a hospital the staff
open the door go through the boxes and
get the the the drugs particularly the
anesthetic drugs that they desperately
need to use to operate on the people who
until they had those drugs sometimes
times the doctors even had to operate on
them without
anesthetic the UN is warning that Gaza
could run out of fuel by the end of this
day Wednesday what would that mean for
the humanitarian situation
there it would mean death for so many
patients we know of 300 babies that uh
are in sorry 150 30 babies premature
babies who are dependent on the
electricity to keep them warm to keep
the the ventilators going there are a
thousand dialysis patients there are
pregnant women an average you give an
average of 183 births happening per day
so that needs light and warmth as well
there are 350,000 people who need
continual care and there are the
thousands of people who are being
injured every day and without the
electricity you don't have the light you
don't have the Machinery you cannot
function you cannot provide the safe
space that a hospital needs to
be there's also a link between lack of
fuel and the spread of waterborne
diseases I'm told to why is the fuel so
necessary for providing clean water to
uh the people living in
Gaza that's correct because it's used
for the desalination plants and the
desalination plants are the only way
people are getting water at the moment
because the not much water's coming in
as you know there's been a blockade uh
at the moment people are getting no more
than 3 lers per day and the the basic
standard for for a person is 15 lers per
day you need that for washing cooking
and drinking and if you're not getting
that you're not able to wash certainly
you're not a to cook safely and you may
well be drinking dirty water so you are
highly likely to be getting
gastroenterological
diseases now the Israeli military says
it has good reasons for not allowing
fuel in to enter Gaza what do you say to
that
market we're talking about health we're
talking about hospitals we're talking
about 15,000 injured people and people
being injured every day that there is no
other way that hospitals can generate
electricity they do not have the any
electricity coming in they can only do
it with generators and the only way
those generators going to work is with
fuel Israel has called for civilians to
leave Northern Gaza to go to the South
many have stayed there in the north do
you have any idea what the situation is
like for those people who have remained
in the
north it's must be terrifying but it's
also terrifying for the people in the
South they are also receiving
bombardment and I am hearing from my our
colleagues on the ground that uh many
people who came down from the north have
moved back again because they don't feel
any safer in the south
they talk about people sort of running
when they hear the bombs running
somewhere else running somewhere else I
cannot even begin to imagine what this
is doing to their mental health
particularly the terror the children are
feeling Margaret thank you very much for
talking with us today that was Margaret
Harris spokesperson for the World Health
Organization well Germany has voiced
strong support for Israel since the
Hamas terror attack foreign minister
analina Bach was among the diplomats who
addressed the UN Security Council on
Tuesday she also appealed for
humanitarian
relief the fight is against Hamas and
not against
civilians that is why that is why it's
crucial for us that this fight must be
carried out in line with humanitarian
law with the greatest possible
conservation for civilians in
Gaza that is why my country Germany is
increasing our humanitarian Aid to GAA
by 50 million Europe of which 19 million
go to
unra that is why we need humanitarian
windows so that those who are suffering
can get help in
Gaza let's bring in Johan vadol here
he's the deputy head of the CDU CSU
parliamentary group in Germany and an
expert on defense and foreign policy
welcome to the program we just heard uh
foreign minister babok there announcing
a new Aid package for Gaza after
repeating Germany that Germany stands by
Israel uh in the face of Civilian
casualties mounting in Gaza and the
humanitarian situation there is there a
red line for Germany when it comes to
supporting netanyahu's
government now I think
um thinking in in red lines is is not
the the um necessary approach in that
very situation Israel is in now you know
uh due to our
responsibility uh after uh being uh
responsible for the Holocaust for
killing millions of Jews uh there has no
doubt that Germany is uh close to Israel
is supporting Israel fully in its combat
against Hamas Hamas is the very reason
uh for the situation we are in now and
if there is a chance to solve
especially the problems for the
civilians who may be injured uh in the
in the fight ahead it is Hamas who can
solve the problem if they give up their
terrorist fight against Israel if they
leave their arms beside and if they come
back to a negotiation table and of
course there are legitimate rights of
Palestinians and uh everybody is in
favor of a two states solution but not
in this way not by killing more than
thousand israelian not through terrorist
attacks so in that very stage Germany
fully supports
Israel now Israel says it wants to wipe
out Hamas uh after that horrible attack
on October 7th but there are voices who
say that the current war will breed more
hatred and extremism we heard German
Chancellor Olaf Schultz talking to
Benjamin Netanyahu urging him not to be
blinded by rage um what's your take is
Israel on the right path
now yes it is on the right path you have
not seen a full-fledged
offensive on the ground so I do not see
rage but I see but I see in Israel which
is uh clearly decided to really wipe out
these terrorists and I think this is
very necessary I do not see any other
solution and I would have expected that
the UN Council and especially the
general
secretary could have urged the Arabic
countries who are of course taking care
of the phe of the
Palestinians uh and and who are
formulating their interests on the
international uh level which is
necessary and uh absolutely legitimate
but I would have expected that the UN
secretary could have uh asked the uh
Arabic countries to put more pressure on
Hamas to use their leverage on Hamas to
give us this to give up this fight to
give up uh the way and only using
terrorist uh
uh chances to to to and and
opportunities to to wipe out Israel that
is there's no determination for for this
Johan vadul Deputy head of the CDU CSU
parliamentary group and expert on
defense foreign policy thank you very
much thank you as
well